Deleting command.
we have sentences like this : The end is tonight
if you put your cursor under h in tonight and press db, it will delete to the beginning of the word.
The remaining sentence will be --> The end is ht

if you put your cursor under t in tonight and press dw, it will delete tonight.
The remaining sentence will be --> The end is 

if you put your cursor in any char in tonight and press daw, it will delete tonight and also
the space before and after tonight

if you put your cursor in any char in tonight and press diw, it will delete only tonight,
the space between and after tonight remained there.

Note : i usually use in changing, and a used in deleting. since in changing you want the space still there

Some operator in normal mode vim can be combined with motions.
such as above, d is combined with the motion, in this case the motion is b, w, aw, iw.

sample of other command that can be motion to d.
We have this sentence : I want you all to be here tonight. Do you understand?
we have command f(char) in normal mode, it search the next char on that line.
say for example my cursor is at a in word all. and then i press f and dot.
it will move the cursor to dot.

another search in line is t(char) it will move the cursor 1 char before the char wanted.
so if your cursor in a at all, and pres t and dot. your cursor will move to last t in tonight.

and you can cobine this motion with d or c or other.
df. --> delete char from cursor until the next dot
cf. --> delete the char from cursor until next dot and enter the insert mmode to change it
dt. --> delete the char from cursor until 1 char before the next dot.

some operator in normal mode that can be follow with motion.
c --> change
d --> delete
y --> yank into register
g~ --> swap the case from lower to upper, or upper to lower
gu --> swap the case to lower
gU --> swap the case to upper
> --> shift right
< --> shift left
v --> entering char visual mode

how to combine.
say i want to change the case for the first letter in the word.
move the cursor into the word and then press g~x
if you want to change to upper case for one word.
move to the first letter of the word and then press gUw.
or cursor from any char in that word and then press gUaw or gUiw and so on.

dap -- > delete one paragraph
gUap --> change one pragraph case to upper case


