Traceroute is a tool in Linux that allows you to investigate the routes of network packets. 
It can help you in identifying the limiting factor of network packet journeys. 
Traceroute is also useful for troubleshooting sluggish network connections. 
This guide shows you how to run traceroute in Linux

Traceroute works by sending packets of data to the target computer, server, or website and 
recording any intermediate steps through which the packets travel. 
The output of a traceroute command will be the IP addresses and domain names through which the packets pass. 
These entries also show how long it takes for the packets to reach each destination. 
This may explain why some websites may take longer to load than others, as the number of traffic hops can vary.

Installing traceroute for debian/ubuntu
--> sudo apt install traceroute -y

The primary method for using traceroute is quite simple. 
All traceroute requires is the destination to perform the probing. 
The destination can be either a domain or an IP address.
--> traceroute linuxhint.com
--> traceroute 8.8.8.8

By default, traceroute will use the default Internet Protocol with which your system is configured. 
To manually set the IP version, follow the procedure below.
To tell traceroute to use IPv4, use the “-4” flag:
--> traceroute -4 linuxhint.com

If there is a need to test a specific port, the port can be specified using the “-p” flag. 
For UDP tracing, traceroute will start with the given value and increase with each probe. 
For ICMP tracing, the value will determine the initial ICMP sequence value. 
For TCP and others, this will be the constant destination port to connect
--> traceroute -p <port> 192.168.0.1

In some situations, the device names in the output may make the output look messy. 
For more clarity, you can hide the device names from the output. 
To do so, use the “-n” (no mapping) flag
--> traceroute -n linuxhint.com

By default, traceroute waits for 5 seconds to receive a response. 
In certain situations, you may want to change the waiting time to be greater or less than 5 seconds. 
To do so, use the “-w” flag. Note that the time value is a floating-point number.
--> traceroute -w 6.0 linuxhint.com

If there are multiple network interfaces connected to the computer, 
then it may help to specify the network interface to use for sending packets. 
To specify the network interface, use the “-i” flag:

To route packets through a certain gateway, use the “-g” option, followed by the gateway:
--> traceroute -I -g 192.168.0.1 linuxhint.com
